---
layout: post
title:  "Exercise 1 | Forensics"
categories: tools
---

You can find the required source code [here][repository], in the master branch of the project's repository. Good luck!

### Question 1:

Run the file ```exercise-1/foxy```. Can you figure out what the fox says?

**Bonus:** You should also be able to discover what the fox says without simply reading the contents of the executable, as it is vulnerable to an attack similar to the one demoed in the taster session. Can you find out what the fox said using this method instead?

### Question 2:

You met one of your oldest gamer friends in the online game Roblox, the aptly named "bugman846". Unfortunately over the years you've forgotten how to get in touch with them. However, thanks to your elite hacker skills obtaining a dump of the game's SQL database was easy, and is contained within ```exercise-1/roblox```. Can you find your friend's email address?

**Bonus:** There was another friend of yours, but you can't even remember their username; only that it began with a "g" and ended with "r". Can you find their email as well?

### Question 3:

The file ```exercise-1/parcel``` contains more than meets the eye. Figure out how to "unwrap" the present contained within!

**Bonus:** There is **EVEN MORE** that meets the eye to your unwrapped gift. Did the creator forget to delete something? What did the gift look like before?

### Additional Practice:

### Question 4 - [Undisputed][UNDISPUTED]
### Question 5 - [Clutter][CLUTTER]
### Question 6 - [Noobhome][NOOBHOME]

[repository]: https://github.com/marsbradley/off_sec_101
[UNDISPUTED]: https://backdoor.sdslabs.co/challenges/UNDISPUTED
[CLUTTER]: https://backdoor.sdslabs.co/challenges/CLUTTER
[NOOBHOME]: https://backdoor.sdslabs.co/challenges/NOOBHOME